The weight of the publish button with
this many people watching is a little
heavier.
>> YouTube [music] launched this summarize
button. Do you worry that you may become
obsolete?
>> It's a really good question.
>> Do you hate AI?
>> Hmm.
Casey Neistat, he went [music] off about
you.
>> Marques will go down in history as the
greatest YouTuber in the history of the
platform.
>> What about your review of Humane?
>> I don't feel bad about an honest review
that is negative.
>> What defines a conflict of interest for
you?
>> They're like, "Can you tell us if you
have any issues with it before you
publish your review?" No. Uh it's not
>> video. [music] How many emails do you
get per day to review stuff? What's the
best subject line?
>> LeBron James x MKBHD.
>> I was like, "What is this?"
>> Have you said no to streaming platforms?
>> Don't bother. Going to make a show on
Netflix would not [music] accomplish
anything that we can't do here.
>> You gave me an early cut of a video. It
is almost like a full-length [music]
documentary, a year in your life, that I
think is going to change YouTube all
over again.
>> People always wonder what's going on
behind the scenes. A bit more vulnerable
to just [music] show how our team works.
>> Do you ever worry about your co-workers
getting poached?
>> The only way that I can combat that is
by making this [music] the best place to
work.
>> Why did you shut down Panels?
>> wish that I'd launched it better. One of
the most insightful hater comments I
ever got
was
>> So, dude, a lot has changed since our
last interview. And I just want to reel
off a few stats that blew my mind. You
crossed 20 million subscribers on your
main channel. You got over 3 million
subscribers across your other channels,
which I want to talk about. LeBron James
interviewed you.
>> Yeah.
>> And also, you won a gold medal for Team
USA for ultimate frisbee, which I think
makes you probably the only person in
the world who has a 10 million
subscriber plaque as well as a gold
medal.
>> Didn't Ronaldo just start a YouTube
channel?
>> Okay, yeah.
You and Ronaldo, okay, that's good
>> He's got to have a gold medal somewhere.
>> good company.
>> Um but I was I was trying to like put in
perspective like all the things you've
done. And then I saw this tweet where
you said you're dropping the best video
you've ever uploaded, which is you
getting shrunk down in a space suit, and
there's comments about how good it is,
it should have been on Netflix, and we
actually did a full breakdown of it.
But, you know what else got me about
that video, Marques? In the beginning of
it, you say to the camera, "This is not
AI."
>> We would have to shrink
way down. But, with a little help,
I'm up for that challenge.
By the way, no generative AI is being
used to create this video.
>> Yeah. Which I thought, as one of the
world's biggest tech creators, you
saying this is not AI and the need to
almost defend it, like, why did you feel
the need to to do that?
>> That line was a last-second add to the
script, but as we were writing that
video, in the back of my head, I was
like, "I think a lot of people will just
assume it's AI generated." And that
discounts
hundreds of hours of work that goes into
making this exactly what it is.
So, we decided to add that line near the
beginning of the video just to settle
people in for like
Cuz one of my favorite things is like
watching a video and realizing how much
work went into it. I would like people
to watch that video and appreciate how
much work actually went into it. So,
that was I think worth adding.
>> But, but what if it was generated with
AI? Like, do you feel like that the ends
are less
um
enjoyable for a viewer because of the
means of AI? Like, do you do you hate AI
in terms of like
>> necessarily less enjoyable. I just think
that people enjoy watching stuff that
humans made. And maybe this is naive cuz
this we're still pretty early with AI
generated videos, and they're getting
really good, and people like watching
them sometimes.
But, I think one of the reasons people
watch my videos specifically is to hear
what I have to say and what I've been
thinking. You're watching my opinion on
the thing and my choice on how to
deliver that information.
I naively
maybe think that that's what people will
continue to come here for.
And so, I when I'm when we're spending
all of time and energy putting it
together and making it exactly what it
is.
If this was AI generated, it would have
been a couple of prompts and like
stringing it together and that's a
different process that maybe doesn't
take as long. This is entirely bespoke.
All the stuff we chose to put in that
video was all like human choice.
>> Do you worry that you may become
obsolete with reviews? Like because I
was fascinated that YouTube launched
this summarize button on videos now
where you could literally type in
summarize this video or get bullets.
There's a lot of like YouTube plugins
that that do this and there's a lot of
truth of like I'm coming to Marques to
get
a MKBHD review. Yeah. But now that I
could summarize your video, do you worry
about that ruining watch time or like
the traffic? Like what like how how do
you think about that?
>> So, I think that feature specifically is
probably more worrying for certain other
types of channels and videos. Like if I
came to a like a tutorial for example
and I need to know what tools do I need
to install this Nest doorbell
and I click on the first result and it's
a 14 and a half minute video and the
summary opens up and tells me the tools
I need,
I'm out of there. Like that type of pure
information grab
is likely to be like impacted by this.
I like to think that our videos are a
combination of information grab and
entertainment. And if you're here for
just the information, I guess you could
open the MKBHD iPhone review and look at
the summary text and go, all right, got
it and leave. But at that point, why are
you on YouTube? Um I think the
entertainment value, the human part that
I talked about, all of that is also why
people come to watch these videos and I
think
that they will probably still watch the
video if they want that part.
>> How do you refine your take or your
perspective? Cuz I I I feel like we have
information overload now and like we
want to hear a clear opinion or or or
point of view to the point where even
shows like Subway Takes is like taking
off where it's like a podcast
essentially in the subway where you're
opening up with an opinion not just
straight information like
>> So what's your take?
This is a note to all restaurants.
Stop singing happy birthday to adults.
>> 100% disagree.
>> How do you think about okay, this thing
just launched millions of people are
going to use it millions of people are
going to talk about it. I'm going to
have an opinion that's going to be one
of one.
>> A lot of it just comes from your context
of like I have thankfully gotten to test
and use a lot of different tech now.
Um
this this happened this like built up
over time in the car videos too. Like I
started the car channel I'd probably
only ever driven like 50 cars which
sounds like a lot but for a car reviewer
not that much. Now I'm reviewing
uh cars with the experience of the
context of like the last 250 cars I've
driven
and that helps me a lot more to have a
take on whether this it's the story or
the product versus the value or whatever
it is.
Um same thing with tech same thing with
any other channel. It's like I have a
lot more experience now and I think that
helps.
>> Yeah. Um on this idea of like AI I saw
this thumbnail that you also put out.
>> Yes.
>> And uh you also were very clear it's
like guys this was not
>> Yeah. Yes yes yes yes yes yes yes yes
yes yes
I could have probably just put a prompt
in and gotten this. And actually I see
people on Twitter do that. Actually it's
kind of annoying but people in my inbox
would be like I generated 50 better
versions of the thumbnail for you. Here
they are. I'm like well
now that you had my source material of
course you can generate this but like
this is a idea that we had to visualize
this concept and that's that's what we
made.
>> Yeah. Hopefully you can appreciate
that's what the humans made. Hopefully.
>> Maybe.
>> Do you think that um like cuz you're
showing more behind the scenes content
than ever before? Like on your X like in
the studio channel this year in the life
video. Do you feel like because like the
outputs are becoming I don't want to say
commoditized but like the level of
quality is going better and better
across the board. You have to work
harder to show the process cuz I'm
seeing the stuff you're putting on the
studio channel like Jimmy just brought
us on to be with him for 45 days and
film like a seven-episode documentary.
And our goal was like help people
appreciate how they pull off the
impossible. And I'm wondering like are
we having like a renaissance of like
behind the scenes and like
process-oriented content cuz the output
is just it's hard to appreciate with AI.
>> I think so. And even
I was just thinking about this. I had my
Daft Punk on
earlier, my hoodie. But Daft Punk to me
is one of maybe the last of a generation
of a certain type of celebrity.
Where there's a mystique to it. Uh it's
it's it's a movie star, it's a musician,
it's a whatever where you just get the
curated part and you can really
appreciate that. But then you don't get
anything else. You don't get the behind
the scenes, you don't get who they are
as a person, what their life is like.
I think that is kind of almost over.
And today, in order for people to relate
and appreciate the humanity of
something, they want to see the humanity
of the thing. You You now you go on Hot
Ones and you like sweat over spicy wings
with Sean and like have a conversation
on camera and then you go on the Joe
Rogan podcast and like there's way more
pulling back the curtain and way more
appreciating of people talking about
their process and how they grew up and
how that, you know, goes into what they
do now.
And you know, to a certain extent the
studio channel is like a version of
that. Like people see the MKBHD videos
and they're pretty polished and they're
pretty well produced and all that. And
obviously there's a humanity to it, but
when you see the behind the scenes of
the team that's having fun making the
thing and then taking a lunch break and
then making the next thing, like there's
a little bit more of the
behind-the-scenes appreciation, I think.
Um I still love Daft Punk, but
that era is probably gone.
>> Yeah, we they never show how they make
their music.
>> Yeah.
>> The studio channel with this year in the
life documentary you made you're showing
how you made
>> Exactly.
>> the some of the most premium videos on
YouTube.
>> Yeah.
>> I have another take. As I was watching
like the studio channel and just seeing
what you've done in the past year, I
think you're solving like the key man
problem where it's like how does a
YouTube channel go beyond its host? And
I think there's a lot of different ways
to go about this. You see Smosh bring in
like an ensemble
>> of enter
>> tainers like people who are amazing at
improv. But to me as an educator or like
somebody who's like been like in a
different space I find it hard to relate
to cuz I'm like how how do I hire
entertainers create an ensemble like
you spotlighting
an ensemble of co-workers
>> Mhm.
>> is really interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> How do you do think about launching the
studio channel and do you feel like it's
almost like
getting some of the weight off of you in
terms of putting out quality content
that doesn't just have to involve you
cuz we're seeing Harper
>> Eric
>> Mhm.
>> Andrew there's so many people in the
video that are becoming characters like
yeah was this studio
channel launch an answer to
not doing everything yourself?
>> Partially. There's a couple dimensions
of like why that channel exists. We kind
of have like a cinematic universe of
channels that all like plug into each
other.
>> Yeah. And maybe give a give context of
what those channels are and what they
are broadly just so so folks know.
>> So you guys probably know me as the tech
guy. I make the tech videos on the MKBHD
channel.
There's also the Autofocus channel which
is just the car videos. There's also the
Waveform podcast and then all the
associated clips which are you know our
chat show talking about tech news stuff
and having some game show fun and etc.
And there's the studio channel which is
a sort of a yeah like you said ensemble
but a little peek behind the curtain
into the production and the studio and
its characters.
>> Yeah.
>> And you I thought that was amazing. You
guys have style guides for each of
these.
>> We do. Yeah. And that's new, too. But
yes.
>> Like different identities. And then also
I mean this is no joke. Like these
aren't just side channels that you
upload every so often to. Like some of
the videos like you guys have uploaded
to these channels. 56 videos to the
MKBHD channel, uh 30 videos Autofocus,
like 12 videos like just in the past
year alone.
>> Yes.
>> That's wild in terms of output across
other channels.
>> Yeah. And they all work with each other.
And so the studio channel there's a lot
of reasons for it to exist. That's one
of them. There are so many ideas that we
have or
things that people here are passionate
about that don't quite bubble all the
way to the surface of full-on MKBHD
video, but they could be a short, they
could be a studio video, they could be a
a video hosted by the person that cares
a lot about it that we have the
resources to bring to life.
Uh so that's a version for why it
exists. There's also cuz people want to
see how the MKBHD videos get made. They
also want to see what it's like to be
here in the space while this stuff gets
made. So there's a bunch of reasons.
>> Seeing your uh co-workers in the videos
and becoming like main characters is
actually really inspiring. I I'm
wondering do you ever worry about them
getting poached?
Like I I've talked to other YouTubers
who actually are worried about putting
some of their best editors and people in
front of the camera because they they've
had experiences I've heard like of other
YouTubers taking them cuz like what an
amazing training ground this is
>> for
>> like to work for Marques
>> Yeah.
>> and to learn about the editing. And then
it's like oh oh this is the person
and it's not you know there's an
etiquette to it, but you're kind of
There's two versions of that, too.
>> Yeah. There is
worrying about getting poached meaning
like some other business is going to see
that talent and then hire them. The only
way that I can combat that is by making
this the best place to work and the most
fulfilling like
feeling of ownership of the output. Uh I
still think we're we're really good at
that. Like you you can see your work
come to life and immediately get seen by
an audience.
Then the other version of that is
working here long enough and learning
enough that you can start your own thing
and then like vault off from the
visibility here to go do your own thing.
And I have no way of stopping that. I
think that's something that like if
someone here that's also kind of a
unicorn like you have to have a bunch of
different skills to bring it all
together to launch your own thing.
Um
But yeah, I think I I think there's
nothing stopping anyone here from
getting enough visibility to launch and
go do their own thing other than this
being a really fun place to work. A
really rewarding
uh direct connection with the output
where you feel ownership of it and you
feel like that's what you want to keep
doing. That's all I can do.
>> Do you dial back your presence in some
of these other videos to give more room
for these or like how how conscious like
are you about like your screen time in
some of these other channels?
>> Yeah.
>> Not not really too much. I mean it's
it's kind of just a result of like
audience expectation at this point. I
think the MKBHD studio the MKBHD videos
you know what to expect.
The other channels
are mostly started because of
like bringing a new format or a new idea
to life that wouldn't necessarily fit
with the audience of existing channels.
>> Yeah. Like we were talking before about
like you're kind of a like this is kind
of a checklist you're running me through
about when to start a new channel cuz I
I think like a lot of creators start
second channels that just die.
Yeah. And you've started a second, a
third, a fourth channel that are
thriving. So what what is that checklist
and how do you think about launching a
new channel?
>> basically [clears throat]
you have the channel you have now.
>> Yeah.
>> And that channel every time you upload
the audience is expecting something.
Whether that's the people on camera or
the format or whatever, the production
value, they're expecting something.
That's kind of like what this idea tree
is. Okay, now I've been like writing for
Top Gear for a couple months and I had
had all these cars come through the
studio that were really interesting, but
just
not quite enough to be an MKBHD video.
I'd made like four car videos on the
main channel, but I reviewed 30 cars for
Top Gear.
But what if
what if I did make videos about those
cars? Yeah. And And those for Top Gear
is written form.
>> Written form.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Uh that audience
expectation, if we start a new channel
where it's just the car stuff, they'll
come back for just the car stuff over
and over. Car stuff, car stuff, car
thoughts, car videos, car reviews.
And so that again became us like, okay,
we're going to have a steady stream of
car thoughts and car reviews, then okay,
perfect. Let's make a channel where we
can do that.
Um so that's kind of basically the
entire tree, but if you have a recurring
thought or format or something where it
doesn't quite fit to the audience
expectations of the currently existing
channels, it's a good candidate for a
for another channel. So at this point
now, we've I think we kind of have the
universe covered. Like we have the
casual chat show podcast, we have the
shot on a smartphone only car review, we
have the highly produced MKBHD channel,
we have the behind the scenes and the
vlog of the studio. We That's That's a
lot. I feel like we kind of have it
covered. So anything
idea-wise that we have will probably fit
into one of those
boxes.
>> Yeah. And And to put this in
perspective, I know you said podcast, a
lot of people with podcasts, let's be
honest, if they don't put any time into
it. Like they just show up. I pulled
these text messages from David on your
team and these emails of him reaching
out to people to get primary research,
to get interviews. And And I just wanted
you to talk about like, what's the prep
process before you record a Waveform
podcast? We saw you guys go in there
today. Like, what are you guys doing to
make sure it's not just another podcast
where people turn on the mics,
chit-chat, and like what what what's the
MKBHD version and and how are you guys
preparing for that?
>> Yeah. I will say one of the most
insightful hater comments I ever got
was probably like 15 years ago or
something. But I was just cranking out
videos
and I got a comment that just said
what was the point of this video?
And I thought about it for a second and
I was like
I don't know. It was just to make it I
just wanted to make a video. I just
didn't really have a good point to the
video.
And it sometimes you just kind of throw
that stuff to the side like it's just
another hater comment, but I really have
thought about that many times since then
where every time I'm making
something that I'm going to publish
like the weight of the publish button
with this many people watching every
time is is a little heavier. Like I want
to have a good reason for why we're
doing this and why we're making it.
And the podcast, you know, you can just
kind of turn a mic on and talk but we
wanted to have a podcast that was
informative and accurate and sometimes
entertaining and educational and all
these other things and that requires
some level of preparation. So a lot of
times David's doing the sort of prep,
Andrew's doing the sort of research. We
have the producer, Adam and Ellis are
working really hard behind the scenes
making entertaining, coming up with
trivia questions, all this stuff so that
it's a really good time
to be able to answer the question what
was the point of this podcast? Well, it
wasn't just turning the mic on and
chatting. It was to make something
good ideally. That's also encompassing
of the having fun chatting.
>> I apply as a point of view.
>> Exactly.
>> Yeah.
>> Marques, I want to talk about more of
the ways that you kind of changed
YouTube and and created trends.
>> You know, one of the things that
impressed me most about Marques, being
at his studio and seeing how he runs his
business, is how he launches his
products. From Ridge to his [music] Atom
shoes that he sold out, all of which are
built on Shopify, which is today's
[music] sponsor. Shopify powers our
merch store, created.store, and so many
more creators use Shopify because it's
one of the easiest ways to start your
business and get it in front of your
audience. And they have a bunch of new
features that are total game changers.
One of my favorite new features is
called Sidekick and it's [music]
basically an AI business partner trained
on your store. And they have other
features like their pulse feature which
will analyze your store and suggest
personalized ways to boost sales from
abandoned cart emails to planning
marketing campaigns. But my favorite
feature is called custom apps where you
literally build apps for your store with
a single prompt like creating an app
that tells me when [music] to reorder
and boom, there's a custom tool there
ready to use. And with Sidekick skills,
you can save prompts to reuse easily
like generate a social post for your top
selling product. So, if you're a creator
or just have an idea that you want to
turn into a business, then consider
Shopify and get a free trial by going to
shopify.com/youshay.
And now, back to our video.
>> But you gave me an early cut of a video
that I think it's going to change
YouTube all over again. But it was it is
almost like a full-length documentary
like 90 minutes like a year in your
life. Why did you decide to do that and
can you share more details about it cuz
I think that it's going to cause a trend
that more people are going to do this
documentary
90-minute year in the life video. It's
almost like yearly vlogging is I think
going to become a thing if I had to
predict.
>> That would be sick.
>> It kind of feels like daily vlogging.
And I think it's like we're at like kind
of the early days. I'm just making a
prediction here but you know what? I
want to hear your thoughts.
>> I think that's valid. I mean, the idea
was I mean, it's the studio. So, the
studio channel often peels back the
curtain on People always wonder what's
going on behind the scenes, how does
this stuff get made, what's it like to
be there when it gets made or what goes
on in between the videos, stuff like
that.
And
what if you just put all of it from an
entire year so you can see the arc of
the whole year into one piece and like
share that. So, we just started
recording everything which was something
to get used to but I think it was worth
it because now people can actually like
fully pull back the curtain and see what
that's like.
And yeah, I think I think other people
will try it too.
>> Yeah. What were some other moments from
the year in the life that you look back
on or or some of the lessons that you
think people can take away from it?
>> I think one of the probably most
frequently asked questions that I get is
why are there so many people, what do
they all do, and you know, that can't
possibly be like necessary. I think this
answers a lot of those questions, which
is like I can finally point people
towards this when they ask that
question.
Um but it also kind of it unveils cuz I
don't there's no like how-to guide on
building a YouTube team. There is no
step-by-step instructions on like
building a creative like machine people
who work together to make this stuff.
Um so it's a bit more vulnerable to just
show how our team works and secretly
hope other people also show how their
team works and we can all learn from
each other in this way.
Um but yeah, it it is fun to actually
actually get to see everyone doing their
thing and how it all comes together like
puzzle pieces, I think.
>> Just to break it down, how many people
right now work for you for MKBHD?
>> I believe it is 18, but that's including
my mom who does all the finance stuff
behind the scenes and me. So it's
probably 16 work for me like actively on
creative.
>> Do you
see a world where you want to expand
beyond that? Do you want to stay where
you're at or like what like cuz I mean I
find a lot of creators are going into
creation, but they end up becoming
managers.
>> Yeah, that's really hard.
>> It is really hard, uh which is why
Harper is a manager.
>> Yeah, and she's a super useful.
>> Yeah, who's your
uh what do you mean by that?
>> yeah, exactly. Which is I didn't realize
I needed it until she started doing that
job and I was like, "Oh, that's that's
that's what we needed."
>> Yeah. What is the octopus metaphor? You
talk about that a lot and I think it's
important to every creator.
>> It's my favorite thing. It's I think
it's super true. Basically, an octopus,
for those who don't know, has eight
arms. Uh
and every creator,
whether they know it or not, is doing a
bunch of different jobs in one. Yes, you
are trying to make a living by making
videos or whatever that is, but that
also means you're doing a lot of
optimization in your writing process and
a lot of creative shooting and then
you're also the editor and then you're
also
the content strategy person who takes
the edits and like decides how to
package them and then that means you're
doing a thumbnails and titles and still
graphics
and before you know it you've got eight
arms you're doing a whole bunch of
different stuff and each arm gets a
fraction of your attention.
The goal
for a creator is to like chop off one of
the arms and hand it to someone who can
spend 100% of their time and intensity
and intelligence on that thing.
And no matter how good you think you are
at that
and you're going to be surprised at how
much better they are with all of their
time at that thing. So editing is one of
the things you always see creators
struggle with handing off. I've
struggled with handing it off but giving
a talented editor all of their time to
catch up to match and surpass your own
editing is worth cutting it off.
And so you end up I end up cutting off
still graphics, [snorts]
motion graphics,
inbox management, negotiating with
brands, all these sorts of different
things that I don't want to spend all of
my bandwidth on and now I'm back to what
I want to do. So fun fact is an octopus
has three hearts.
And that's just because a creator needs
to find their three things that they
can't cut off that they stick to. For me
that's you know reviewing the actual
tech and content strategy and creative
you know choices around the YouTube
channels and the way we do those things.
So yeah, it kind of feels like the the
octopus analogy has been useful for a
long time.
>> Have you ever cut off your own heart or
like given away something or delegated
something that you're like damn like I
that that actually gave me life you
know.
>> No, in fact I was too slow to cut off
some arms I think. I think and I was I'm
I'm very deliberate about how we go
through each one of these steps. We're
super super slow about it. I'm sure
there are other creators who
cut off something and then realized that
that was something they wanted to do.
They brought it back.
But yeah, I've I've was the octopus for
a decade and then
>> I was doing everything.
>> Doing everything for a long time and
then had to slowly
decide which arm to cut off one by one
and I think I'm thankfully uh intact
here.
>> [laughter]
>> Which is good.
>> How do you pick which of those things to
cut off or to delegate? Cuz I think a
lot of creators like struggle with that.
Do you Do you was it clear to you that,
you know, graphics were the thing that
you're going to delegate or negotiation
cuz like for me I actually realized like
we at one point like, you know, we're
working more external with folks who did
our brand deals and I mean I actually
really enjoy the biz dev and, you know,
my uh partner Amanda, she's great at the
operations. We brought everything
in-house versus So we kind of went back
and forth in terms of which arms do we
delegate. I'm wondering how how how how
did you think about that?
>> Yeah, that's uh that's exactly kind of
the same process as we we know what we
enjoy and we realize what makes us us.
So if that's like, you know, you you
realize like I'm a tech YouTuber, I
obviously am going to be the one testing
the tech and delivering my thoughts on
it and reviewing it. But maybe there are
parts of that that are not necessarily
what makes me me. It's not why someone
is drawn here. Like
okay, the thumbnails for example.
For the longest time, I would make the
whole video. I'd be so excited about
this whole video and I'd finish editing
and I'd hit export and I can't wait to
upload it and share it and I don't have
a title or thumbnail yet. Hmm.
And I would just upload the video and
then quickly throw something together in
Photoshop or and then just make
that the thumbnail. And
it's important the packaging obviously,
but it wasn't the thing that I was
passionate about, the thing that I was
spending most of my mental bandwidth on.
And so along comes Tim and still
graphics wizard like he does all of the
graphics, but he can spend all of his
time on something that I was spending 1%
of my time on. So they are way better
than any thumbnails I could ever make.
And they can follow the vision and like
package things and support the business
really well.
>> Uh you mentioned thumbnails and in our
newsletter we tend to curate a lot of
your stuff and this one just stood out
as one of the best of the week on
YouTube. And I got these original
mock-ups of a thumbnail that you put
together that I thought was one of your
best thumbnail. And And I was just
wondering, can you take us through like
what is going on from that mock-up? Like
what's happening behind the scenes? Like
that process to me looked just
fascinating. What's going on with this
thumbnail?
>> Yeah. This one specifically, it's such a
meld of so many things going on. First
of all, the video itself, this is the
Epic Spaceman video collab where I'm
shrinking myself down to the like
nanometer scale to show the size of a
transistor. And we wanted a thumbnail
that could sort of illustrate the fact
that I'm shrinking down.
>> Yeah.
>> I have used
various shrunken Marques thumbnails in
the past.
I've had me shrunken down sitting on a
Mac mini. I've had me shrunken down
opening an iPhone.
And we thought, okay, that's a really
good visual. If we can show that scale,
that shrinking thing, that's really
really good.
But an M5 chip, how do we show that? I
don't know.
But what if we had the five key on a Mac
keyboard? It's the closest thing we're
going to get. This is us like talking in
front of the whiteboard like trying to
sketch it out. Tim and Brandon, these
wizards, are like kind of drawing it out
for me. Then it just goes into
production, which is, okay, well, we
know how to shoot this. We'll shoot the
keyboard first, then we'll shoot Marques
from the same angle so that we can match
it. Have like an object we've learned,
it helps to hold an object so that it
easily kind of fits in with physics. It
turned out like very hard to visualize
this idea in a thumbnail, but it worked
out pretty well.
>> So, I did a highly scientific study. I
went to the streets of Hollywood and
different conferences over the past
year. And I asked people, who's more
popular, Steve Jobs or Marques Brownlee?
>> Popular?
>> Yes. Yeah, or who's more known? Just
>> In like the year 2020 six?
>> Yes, yes, yes, yeah.
>> Okay.
>> Who are these two people?
>> Marques Brownlee and Steve Jobs.
>> We got Marques Brownlee and Steve Jobs.
>> The truth I don't know this guy. This
guy, Bill Gates.
>> We have Marques Brownlee, I think that's
his last name, and then we got Steve
Jobs.
>> Not Steve Jobs, the other one.
Tim Cook, right? Tim Cook.
And I don't know who that is.
>> Well, that's Marques and then your man
Steve Jobs.
>> know who that is, I can't lie to you. I
don't know who this guy is, too.
>> Do you Do you have an iPhone?
>> Right here.
>> [laughter]
>> That's an interesting one cuz I don't
think anyone who knows Steve Jobs or I
don't think anyone who knows me doesn't
know Steve Jobs is. That's what I
thought was interesting. Yeah. So, it
would be interesting if there was
That's a hilarious video. If there was
like a like a
Hollywood actor or something, but
totally separate. Yeah, that'd be really
interesting.
>> Yeah.
>> That's funny.
>> Yeah, god, wow.
>> I would say who's more impactful is
Steve Jobs.
>> Yeah, I I I That was pretty clear.
>> I know it's a crazy comparison,
especially now that Apple could have you
in their big product keynotes, and and
Google does the same because last time
we did an interview Marques, I asked you
a lot of questions about the business of
tech, rapid-fire. I wanted to ask you
some of those similar questions and see
if any of your answers have changed.
>> Oh, interesting. I hope I remember what
I said last time.
>> Well, I think it's more interesting that
you don't. So, okay, here we go.
Have you ever reviewed a product where
you were paid to do it?
>> No.
>> Still no?
>> Still no. Never will.
>> Have you ever sent one of your review
videos to the manufacturer before it
went live?
>> No.
No. Also never will.
>> What's the biggest sponsorship deal
you've said no to because it may have
been a conflict of interest?
>> Sponsorship
deal I may have said no to.
I think there's the amount of Dubai
conferences I get invited to now to like
go on stage and talk about crypto where
they're like, "Here's seven figures.
Want to come to Qatar and talk about
this?"
>> [sighs]
>> No, I don't want to. I say no.
I'm sure they would be fine, but I'm
just not interested.
>> What What defines a conflict of interest
for you? Like like what is a conflict of
interest?
>> question. Yeah.
>> Because because I interviewed
LinusTechTips. A lot of your content is
reviewing products from brands, but then
you also take sponsorships from brands.
>> Absolutely.
>> How how do you handle like conflicts of
interest?
>> You cannot buy my opinion. You cannot
buy my labs team's analysis.
What you can buy is airspace for what is
clearly
separately, obviously your talking
points.
>> Mhm.
>> Everyone draws their line in the sand in
different place. I will not accept money
to do any review. Like the reviews that
I choose to do are always whatever I
want to do. The product gets sent, of
course. I do all my own testing, and
then that is independently published.
And they get mad sometimes, by the way.
They're like, "Can you tell us if you
have any issues with it before you
publish your review? Can you just like
run it by us?"
No.
It's my video.
Um
And then yeah, conflict of interest. So
then there's like just categories I'm
not interested in. It's not even a
conflict of interest. It's just a lack
of interest.
And
yeah, I I don't know if there's any
other like specifically defined ones,
but it's kind of just
just keeping it clean, I guess.
>> How do you keep separation of church and
state if a brand sponsors a video that's
separate from like a product that they
may send you and and want you to review?
>> Right. Yeah, I mean, I will I will work
with brands on
a sponsored integration to highlight a
product, which is definitively not a
review.
Um and it's it's typically not even in
the category of anything I would review,
which is I think just easier for viewers
to understand.
That's also the other thing is viewers
sometimes don't always fully understand
because the line is different for every
YouTuber. They don't understand um
I think they think about sponsorships as
they would treat it versus how the
YouTuber would treat it. So, if I am a
tech YouTuber and I accept a Samsung
brand deal to talk about a microwave,
then surely I must feel obligated to
speak highly of Samsung phones, right?
That's like a totally logical thing to
think in your head.
And that's maybe true for some YouTubers
and it's not true for other YouTubers.
So, it helps to just keep it as clean as
possible. Just no Samsung ads. Just
helps to keep it as clean as possible.
I'm never doing an Apple ad or anything
like that. It's always going to be a
something I'm not reviewing can get an
ad. Something I am reviewing can't get
an ad. Oh, wow. So, so if they're part
of like the like iPhone, Pixels, like
things that you like Samsung phones that
you're reviewing annually.
>> Yeah.
>> You will close off any money you may get
from them.
>> Never doing a phone ad.
>> Never doing a phone ad. But like a
sponsorship on another video that's not
related to that. Is that fair game?
>> for a phone, I won't do it.
>> If it's for a phone.
>> Just to keep it easy to understand. Cuz
I know people will think, oh, it's
separate. This isn't the phone review.
It's a sponsored bit. But even and some
tech YouTubers do that. They'll do a
Samsung phone review over here and then
they'll do a Samsung phone ad over here.
Some people understand that there's a
distinction. Some people don't. So, I
just choose not to do it.
>> Yeah. Yeah. But if it's more broad, if
it's like like Google like or or YouTube
like NFL Sunday Ticket.
>> separate enough, I think that's easy to
understand. Like for yeah, there's I
will do an ad for a YouTube feature even
though YouTube and Google are part of
Alphabet and I'm technically reviewing
Pixel phones that are also made by
Google. It's like if
I think that's enough of a distinction
that people will understand it. But
yeah, that's a good point. There's like
yeah, there's so many different lines in
the sand for different types of
conflicts in different YouTubers that
it's
it's easiest to just keep it as easy to
understand as possible.
>> How much harder is that for younger and
smaller YouTubers? Cuz they you may give
a bad review and that might cut off like
them sending you product which may cut
off like your ability to make like
content and then all of a sudden
>> That's an interesting I hear that a lot.
I think there's different levels of
that. I think if you're a early creator
and you're just getting your first
product to review ever
uh you may feel like some temptation to
be positive about it so you don't lose
that access.
I would say
you shouldn't be afraid to lose that
access because clearly it wasn't a big
part of your business before now. So you
should be fine without it.
There's also the even younger channels
who never have relationship with these
companies. They never have to worry
about that. That's great.
A lot of people talk about the bigger
channels like mine where the access that
they give us sometimes is pretty
critical for our review. Oh, you're
getting a device ahead of the release or
something like that and therefore your
video is in the first wave. That's
important to your business. Totally
valid.
What ends up happening is
I'm still honest about all of my
opinions and I I'll give a positive or
negative review. You can watch lots of
negative reviews I've given of embargoed
products.
Um and it's up to the company to decide
what they want to do.
And I have never to this day had a
company cut me off from future product
reviews because of a negative review
I've given. It's actually never
happened.
>> Mhm.
>> They will very typically hit me up about
here's the things that we fixed. Here's
the software updates. Here, please
review this again. Here's the newest
version. Check it out. It's way better.
Um but a company cutting me off for an
honest negative review looks worse for
the company, not me.
Um so I'm not worried about giving an
honest review and then getting cut off.
If anything
it's content, isn't it?
>> [laughter]
>> Like that's pretty That's a bad look for
that company. Um so yeah, I I don't
worry about that either.
>> Speaking about negative reviews, what
were the conversations like with Fisker
who you reviewed their car?
>> Fisker, I've never talked to them.
>> You've never talked to them?
>> Never talked to them.
>> So I wanted to review the Fisker Ocean
just like many other EVs that were
interesting at the time. I couldn't get
one from Fisker, so I went to uh J&S,
who's a dealership in New Jersey, and I
said, "Can I borrow your Fisker for a
video?" They said, "Sure."
I reviewed the car.
I learned why no one was buying them. I
made the video. Obviously, it was
negative.
No one at the time was saying these are
great cars.
Everyone else, if you go look back at
it, people who had reviewed the Fisker
Ocean before me were like, "This is
really bad, like really problematic.
Issues with the cars, issues with
getting locked out of them." Worse
issues than I'd had.
Um I made my video. The headline
obviously got a lot of attention and got
a lot of clicks.
But that stock price was doing this
before I made the video, and it was
doing that after I made the video, and
if anything, maybe it accelerated a
little bit, but
I don't feel bad about an honest review
that is negative. I would feel horrible
if everyone else was saying it was great
and their stock price was up here, and
then I had a horrible experience, gave
it a negative review, and then the
company went bankrupt. That wouldn't
make much sense, but I would feel bad if
that actually happened.
Um
thankfully, it doesn't happen. It's like
it's an honest review where everyone's
reviewing the same stuff, and everyone
knows what's bad.
>> Mhm. Well, what about your review of
Humane
>> the pin
>> device, the pin that would have like,
you know, a display on your like,
there's a lot that was out about that
before the product came in, and then you
reviewed it. You called it the worst
product that you ever reviewed. How did
you think about the gravity of that
video?
>> So, a lot of products I get in to review
are
like pretty mid. They're fine. [snorts]
They usually don't get a video. They're
like not that interesting or exciting.
But the ones that are interesting and
exciting, like a 10,
that's pretty cool. That's worth getting
a video.
And then every once in a while, we get
one that's so bad
that you're like, "I'm kind of surprised
this made it this far." That's an That's
its own story. That's also a video.
That was one of those rare products
where it had all this hype, it had all
the you know, these founders making
these super interesting videos, and they
thought maybe this could be the future,
and then you tried it,
and I was genuinely surprised that it
was actually the worst thing I'd ever
reviewed, and I've reviewed a lot of
stuff.
So, here I am being honest about the
product again.
And
yes, mine was one of the earlier reviews
as well at that point, but you continue
to see after my review other people
review it. They all also can tell it's
bad, it's overheating, it's having
issues, the software is not good. This
is also kind of awkward, but
yeah, um that was just another weird
case of
a shockingly outside of the normal
bounds of quality product. Usually
products are mid, and if they're great,
they get a video. If they're terrible,
they can also get a video.
>> Like what what is a company doing that
case cuz like the ethos is often like
launch fast, iterate, like get feedback,
and and and your platform is massive,
but it's another form of feedback that
if it came in another way, they could
have made the product better. Like do
they slow down on on launching the
product, but then their development is
worth Like it is a bit of a catch-22 in
the YouTube era to launch tech products
when
review channels like yours do exist and
have that kind of weight when maybe that
was like V1 of something that could have
been great like in version three or
four.
>> Totally, I hear that a lot. I
and I made a video kind of about this
topic as I also talked about a humanoid
robot that I think is also not ready.
It's a very modern trend of announcing
with a very pretty video and a very
complete website and a pre-order button
a product that does not exist and is not
ready, and even when it does come out,
it still needs a lot of work to actually
be as good as you're showing it to be in
the video.
It's like a new thing in the last couple
of years.
I I don't know if there's much that I
can do about it other than suggesting
that you wait until it's done before you
actually show it? I don't know if that's
a crazy take.
>> Yeah.
>> But, you know, there's a lot of these AI
things that they need a lot of data.
They need to get into people's homes.
They need to enthusiast to beta test it.
In which case, you're just going to have
to deal with a lot of early reviews
saying it's not done. It's not good yet.
And if your product is good enough or
has enough promise, it can weather that
storm. I think that's true. I think
there's a lot of beta-ish products that
require a lot of, you know,
full self-driving from Tesla or a lot of
like products that need a lot of user
input to actually be good. I'm sure when
Waze first came out, it wasn't as good
as it is now.
But if the promise is good enough and
the base product is good enough, I think
it can survive with those good enough
fundamentals
to get to
Okay, this is actually good now. And
maybe get a second review.
I think that's something that's specific
to one product. Rabbit is really trying
to do that. I reviewed the Rabbit R1,
which is this little handheld standalone
AI product not long after the Humane
Pin. Truly wasn't ready. Way too early
to launch it. But they've done a lot
since launch. And I think a lot of
people have been telling me to re-review
it cuz it's a totally different product
now, which I think is fair. But yeah,
back in those early days, it was
I think I called it unreviewable. It was
way too soon.
>> It's such an interesting Yeah, it's such
a hard place to be as a founder. Like
people watching tech products. But I I
think it's also kind of people setting
expectation. It's like this is not going
to be the next big thing yet.
>> Yeah.
>> to be rough. And
>> But their video will paint it as it's
the next big thing. Give us your money
right now.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's off. Marques,
I'm wondering how do you take like such
dense information and turn into
something that like anybody can consume?
Like I I I was
going through like some material. I got
like a reviewer's guide of a product
that's like 70 pages like deep. Like you
get these all the time from different
products.
Um you see keynotes. Like I I like being
in the corporate world for a bit. Like I
have PTSD listening to some of the
jargon and some of the like There's so
much jargon. There's so much like world
word salad that like people put out
there. Um, yeah, how how are you like
going through a keynote or or something
like cuz I think every creator in their
niche has to translate somehow.
Um, and like you've been able to do that
in an really interesting and clear way.
>> Yeah, it's funny. I have this this
concept for a series or playlist that I
haven't really been able to bring to
life yet, but I think it kind of
encapsulates the whole channel, which is
ad versus reality.
Just like watching an ad, watching the
this product and what they claim to be
able to do,
and then trying that exact set of things
and seeing how well it actually works.
Because every
presentation, every reviewer's guide,
every keynote, every marketing thing has
what they want you to believe about the
product, the story, how well-made it is,
how well it works.
And then there's reality, how well it
actually works, how well it actually
does what they say.
That often involves a lot of
parsing out technical information or
parsing out marketing jargon and just
giving the
real-world speech version of the
verdict. What's the most overused
jargon? Like comparing something to the
size of a football field? Like like
what's
>> there's a lot of I was just talking
about this. There's a lot of
aerospace grade aluminum. There's a lot
of surgical grade steel. There's a lot
of
There's a lot of just like people like
using certain terms to emphasize how
great something is going to be.
It's fine. I don't know. I I They're
totally like great for billboard and
stuff like that, but I'm just going to
use the phone in my pocket with no case
for a week or two and then we'll see.
We'll see.
>> Have you ever had like a tech company
reach out like after you distilled or
like taken their information like, "Hey,
Marques, that was way off."
>> I've gotten versions of that. I've
gotten
"How did you get the product to do that
thing that we didn't design it for?" or
had you know, there's versions of like
we anticipated the user's use case to be
different from your testing, which is
interesting.
Um, I don't necessarily have a problem
with that. I think that's totally valid
to hear their version of it, but also
I'm using it how I believe the users
will use it.
>> What's an example of just a maybe common
one?
>> if I'm using a
if I'm using a thousand-dollar
microphone, I'm going to test it with a
lot of things in mind that I wouldn't
necessarily include if I'm reviewing a
ninety-dollar microphone, if that makes
sense. Because the buyer of the
thousand-dollar microphone has
considered seven other thousand-dollar
microphones and is looking at the
tiniest minutia of details and
differences between them.
Where the person buying the
ninety-dollar microphone,
odds are it's one of their first ever
microphone purchases and they just need
to know if it's better than the one in
their phone or their laptop.
I'm not saying that out loud as I review
the microphone, but you can you know,
understand like the decision for the for
the viewer is in the context of all the
things around that product. And then you
know, you might get a nice letter from
the the ninety-dollar microphone company
about why didn't you test it in these
other environments and these other
things.
I'm sure it's capable of that, but I'm
talking to this audience.
>> Yeah. Um, how many emails do you get in
your inbox per day or like Jono, you're
like who leads a lot of your biz dev and
like how many emails do you get per day
to review stuff now?
>> To review stuff, probably a dozen a day.
I get a lot of emails. Jono gets a lot
of emails. You could ask him how many he
gets.
>> What's the best subject line you've seen
lately? Something that caught your
attention.
>> LeBron James x MKBHD
>> [laughter]
>> was like I opened it and I was like,
"What is this?" And it was like, "LeBron
wants to interview you." I was like,
"Yes, great. Of course."
That was a great headline. Good catcher.
>> Can you do it
as a little side quest like what what
What the experience like? Like LeBron, I
mean he's just It was awesome. The guy I
mean, just like what
>> It was super fun. I will say the thing
that hit me the most from that is the
production team that he has built with
this Uninterrupted network is goated. I
just want to give them their props. I've
been on so many big productions, so many
big shoots where there's 70 people
behind the camera. I've did a
masterclass. I've done these huge
productions where I have a 8:00 a.m.
call time and I walk in at 7:55
and they're like, "Yeah, just give us a
minute for like hair and makeup over
there. Okay, now they're ready, but then
they're still doing the lights. Okay,
maybe another hour for this, another
hour for that." And I'm shooting at
1:30. I'm like, "Why did I show up at
8:00 a.m.?"
I think for that LeBron shoot, I showed
up It was probably like a 9:00 a.m. call
time. I showed up at 8:55. I think I was
sitting down in the chair shaking hands
with LeBron at 8:59. Like, "Go. Action."
I was like, "This is amazing." And then
we shot, great, you know, fun
conversation.
And then that was it. It was just a a
blink of an eye.
>> Did did LeBron or Maverick Carter, who
is his business partner, like leads a
lot a lot of his like content, did they
ask for any advice off screen or like
they're doing a lot in content while
he's still on the court? Whereas most
athletes like, you know, [snorts]
but well, yeah, what what were those
conversations like about them picking
your brain?
>> They obviously have their, you know,
physical production pretty down, but
just as far as like what they want to do
as a network, the shows they're doing.
They have a lot of ideas for things.
Obviously, LeBron's very involved.
Probably is
being very smart about building this
business while he has the visibility of
being one of the goats in the NBA, and
an active player.
So, yeah, we had a couple of those those
chats, too.
>> Last time we chatted, you also gave me a
breakdown of how you make your money as
a YouTuber and rough percentages were
these
>> what I said last time.
>> This is what you said last time. Yeah.
What what is it now? Like how how how do
you make money as a YouTuber today?
This might be the same.
>> Maybe right now we'll we'll
>> Okay, yeah. So, in 2024, it's 60%
sponsors, 30% AdSense, 10% other.
Yeah, I think that's about right. So,
like
AdSense is is the flux thing that goes
up and down month to month. It can be a
great month, it can be September, or it
can be January, it can be really really
low.
Um so, you don't rely on that as a
business. You have our partners, Ridge,
dbrand, super long-term, super involved,
essentially channel sponsors.
Um and then we also will do occasional
like other sponsored stuff in between.
Those put together are still, I think,
roughly 60% of like the stable year
month to month like income for the
business. And then, yeah, AdSense
probably goes between 10 50% depending
on what's going on that month. And then
other,
which is a bunch of stuff, it's
licensing, it's merch, it's the little
behind-the-scenes projects we do here
and there, uh is still
yeah, probably like 5 to 10%.
>> That's fascinating to me cuz I thought
by now, um because when we
did our interview a couple years ago, it
was right as you're launching new
products with Ridge, the MKBHD brand.
>> Yes.
>> Um are products not a bigger part of
like how you make money today, or
>> Um
>> like cuz I'm I'm seeing a lot of these,
like I'm even getting ads of like, you
know, different Ridge products that
you've designed. I'm paying more
attention to those as I'm wondering if
like that's like
>> Yeah.
>> driving more conversions across the
board.
>> It definitely is. I think that's just a
product of the structure of my
relationship with Ridge, where it's
mostly ownership. It's not like the
products I'm involved with I get a
percentage of income from, it's more of
just like an equity in the business. So,
yeah, we are definitely doing a lot with
Ridge, and it's really fun, and I'm
excited about a lot of stuff we have
coming up, but it's not like moving the
needle in the month to month term. We
work with them, we do sponsored
integrations with them also.
>> Yeah.
>> But yeah, that's how it's structured.
>> What have you learned about product
development? And like cuz now like, you
know,
we you've come out with like a your own
wallet, soft wallet,
like battery charger pack on the back of
phones, like a lot of different things.
Like what yeah, what have you learned
about like being involved as a YouTuber
in in a existing business? Because I
think that's becoming more and more
common, you know? You have Jimmy who
started Feastables like mostly from
scratch, but you have a lot of folks who
have done what you've done or
Ryan Trahan with Joyride and like coming
into an existing candy business or
recently like we launched an accounting
business and like we're trying to scale
that and more
with with a a lot of like the
infrastructure there. I'm wondering like
what have you learned like doing this at
a bigger scale?
>> A lot and I think it'd be really
interesting if all the people you just
mentioned also
shared more of the behind the scenes of
what they learned. I try to include it a
little bit in the product reviews.
Um because
I mean, I went to business school. I
knew this stuff already, but it's so
much more tangible when you work on
products. Like every product is a series
of trade-offs.
Every choice that goes into a product,
whether it's the colors, materials,
capacities, abilities, all those things
are a direct trade-off with quality and
price and timeline and all these things
that go into it.
And it's made me probably a little bit
more understanding of choices that get
made in the products I'm reviewing. Cuz
when I we make a product with Ridge and
it goes out there and other people
review it and I see how people talk
about the choices that we made,
it gives me a new perspective on yeah,
when I'm reviewing this, let me think
about the choices that went into
making this exact choice that I'm about
to talk about.
>> Like what?
>> Just in like um
if I'm reviewing a phone that decided to
have a lower resolution, but a higher
refresh rate.
>> Refresh rate being the speed at which
you see the
>> Yeah, of the display.
I do see a lot of comments about like
the just the screen is a downgrade. Like
I can't like why am I going from 2K to
1.5K? But when I see that choice, I
immediately think, okay, they knew those
comments were coming, but they also knew
that most people were not using the
display at 2K, so they can move to 1.5K
and have a still great screen, but also
bump up the resolution because the chips
that they're using can support a higher
refresh rate at the same resolution.
This is nerdy stuff, but I'm like
I I see those choices
more down the rabbit hole of the maker
of the product now than I did before.
>> What what choices have you made like
being part of Ridge? Cuz that was a huge
deal. I think it was
like the numbers probably were over a
million dollar deal, multiple years you
getting equity, being the chief creative
partner. Like what what are some of
those decisions you've helped make on
products and then you get reviews on and
you're like, oh, like
>> Yeah. I mean
>> kind of got roasted there.
>> The wallet, the soft wallet was one of
the first products that I worked on and
people just see the final result. What
they don't see is the hours of meetings
and the dozens of in-between versions
that were considered before the final
version where the slots are in different
places and the stitching is slightly
further from the outside and the
materials are a little different color
and all these other things.
Um
and I think yeah, basically when the
final product comes out, I'm like hoping
that people appreciate the small details
about how far the stitching is from the
outside and when the exact black leather
that we're using.
Um but at the end of the day, it's
mostly just like, yeah, is it a good
price? Does it do what I want? All
right, it's good or it's not good.
Um but yeah, there is there's so many
micro decisions that go into the
simplest products.
>> What about Panels? That was a app that
you launched that sold wallpaper. I
don't want to simplify, but maybe maybe
put into your own words and and why did
you launch that? Cuz I I thought
it was interesting of all the things to
put your like brand behind like that was
one of the things that you put out since
our last interview a couple years ago. I
think that was October 2024, you
launched it and then just a few months
ago November 2025
you shut it down. Yeah. What was the
process of launching it? That's a that
that must have been a hard decision.
>> Yeah, it was a fun project that we
learned a lot from. The original idea
for it was one of the most frequently I
think the most frequently asked question
I get is where did you get that
wallpaper? And I think if you Google
MKBHD and hit space like wallpaper was
the next word that shows up. Like people
are constantly trying to where did you
get that wallpaper? Where did you get
the wallpapers in this style? Um
>> And we're literally talking about the
your phone screen.
>> The background on on your on your
computer, on your phone, on your tablet,
on whatever.
>> Yeah.
>> And so having obviously I could just
like give you the image or whatever, but
I thought it would be more fun to have a
place where you can go view more from
that artist and like find the rest of
their stuff and even if you want if they
sell stuff you can have it that's access
to that stuff too.
Um
I still like the idea. I think obviously
we launched it pretty poorly and I think
the communication specifically was the
failure because I think most people
today refer to panels as a subscription
wallpaper app or a paid wallpaper app.
It was a free wallpaper app, but it
happened to have the ability to buy
things also and if you wanted access to
everything behind the paywall you could
just pay a subscription to that growing
library, but it was a free wallpaper
app. Nonetheless, it wasn't as tactfully
launched as we should have been and
uh it didn't maintain the numbers and
the the sort of community we were hoping
for and so we did shut it down, but I
think we learned a lot from it. I would
I would launch it again if I was 2 years
ago I would try it again. I think there
was a lot of things we we got out of
that experience.
And yeah, now we know like what sort of
developers to look for, what sort of
teams to work with if we want to do
something in the same vein in the
future.
>> Oh, so there's a chance you may relaunch
it?
>> I don't think we're going to relaunch
panels, but I think if there are other
projects cuz we we we worked with the
developer. We worked with outside teams
for you know bringing in more help for
coding and then putting that together
and then also filling the ad slots in
the background and all sorts of other
things. Um
So if we were to do another project
that's similar in like the software
space or whatever it is, we now have
those connections. We know we now know
who we can work with and things like
that.
>> Yeah, it's fascinating that like even
like like when you answer the question
like why did you shut down Panels? It's
like well,
maybe the app shut down, but then the
learnings from it and the things that
like like like yeah, it's like and
because anything you do even
like if it's like just an experience
going to be massively like talked about
in public.
>> for sure. Yeah. I'm not like
I'm not mad at how it went. I obviously
wish that I'd launched it better. A lot
of that falls on me, but it's it's more
of just like all right, we just learned
a lot about launching things. We just
learned a lot about building things. We
just learned a lot about communication
and and managing the things that we do.
So,
I think it's still a win.
>> What what else did you learn about
launching things? Cuz I think so many
creators are trying to launch something
beyond content.
And then this time I'm sure like you
learn more from your, you know, I don't
want to call it failure, but you learn
from like things that we didn't go as
successfully as they could have. Like
what Yeah, what did you learn from
Panels that, you know, other creators or
you may like use for your next app at?
>> I think one of the biggest things was
explain like just going into depth and
giving it the explanation time instead
of cuz again, we spent
more than a year. We spent many months
behind the scenes of like making tons of
choices to build that, to bring the
artists in, to communicate with the
artists about what percentages made
sense for them. All sorts of crazy
things that we didn't talk about at all
in the launch. The launch was like
casually tacked on in the middle of a
different review where it's like hey, we
made this thing. Check it out. Let me
know if you like it. The end. And didn't
explain any of the choices. I think in
in hindsight, I think if I if I were to
launch it again or launch something else
in the future, I would go through and
explain all of those things. I ended up
making a follow-up video about Panels
and then explained a bunch of that
stuff. But if I could do that from the
beginning to give everyone the
information that they can then pick
apart, that would be way better.
>> Yeah.
>> Instead of them assuming everything.
It's interesting that's like that that
first video, whether it's like your
launch video explaining it or a review,
it's
very hard to like change like people's
like minds about what they heard in that
video.
>> It again goes into like what you don't
say is just as important as what you do
say.
>> I had a chance to interview Casey
Neistat and he went off about you and
just said this quote that really stuck
with me. I just wanted to play this clip
from my interview with Casey.
>> I think Marques will go down in history
as the greatest YouTuber in the history
of the platform. He absolutely crushed.
No one is looking to the New York Times
for the iPhone 16 review. No one is
looking at what the Wall Street Journal
is saying. Because he's so good and was
so far out in front that now it is
emulated across the board. Marques has
defined a genre.
>> Appreciate that, Casey.
What What What What does it feel to hear
that and also see your work emulated
across the board? I thought that was a
part of the quote that was interesting
cuz I I've just seen so many different
facets of your work, Marques. Like I I
pulled a lot of visuals from your
formats to your thumbnails, your
different shots over the years that I
think are all across YouTube and beyond
just the tech genre. I just wanted to
just get your initial response and I
want to dive deeper into how you've done
that.
>> Yeah. Well, so I would say first it's
not that no one watches the Wall Street
Journal or New York Times anymore.
Obviously, they they have their audience
that they speak to. Tends to be older,
sure. But it's clearly shifting. People
want to hear from people about like
you've had a conversation like you use
that thing? Should I buy that thing?
Like that conversation is what people
like to make purchases off of. So,
that's kind of what I do. Um and there
are a lot of tools that we use, visual
tools that we clearly use often and have
developed that work really well for this
to support that goal.
Uh and yes, people copy them cuz they
work well. So, makes sense.
>> Take me through like some of the things
that you've done in your videos that,
you know, now we see across all of
YouTube.
>> Okay, so well, top downs is a good one.
Now we have a room just to do top downs
cuz we use that type of shot so often.
Obviously, [snorts] showing a simple
thing in the center of the frame, the
device, but then having props, having a
background, having an environment that's
not too distracting. The orbit shot,
there's an object in the center of the
frame that's the focus, and then the
camera moves around the object. So,
typically it's on a I'd do it with a
slider a lot, so I'm just moving left to
right and panning at the same time. And
then we have some cinematic stuff, too.
The probe lens, some of our cinematic
intros, and other stuff. That's just fun
cuz the whole team here, like me, just
enjoys making videos.
Uh but yeah, realism is is usually the
goal.
>> And also just like little things, I will
say like I love like when I look in the
camera in our videos and we do like a
zoom in.
>> A little punch in.
>> A little punch in. And that is like
directly adapted from you.
>> Yeah, there's lots of little things. I
don't know how much to take credit for
cuz I'm not inventing a lot of this
stuff. These are available. People can
do what I'm doing. It's fine. But, I do
feel like there's certain levels of like
like repeating the same type of thing or
using it for emphasis a certain amount
of times, like people start to pick up
on that, then it feels like it's a
useful tool, and then other people can
use the tool the same way.
>> Yeah.
>> So,
yeah, it's great.
>> I I will say it reminds me of this quote
from Virgil Abloh, the late Virgil
Abloh. It was like creativity is a 3%
change.
>> Mhm.
>> And that's all you need to start to like
innovate. And I feel like you've made
these 3% changes across YouTube.
>> That's what being a creator is. Every
video is a 3% change from the last
video.
Yeah. And then if you scroll back far
enough, you start to accelerate the 3%
changes, and you can see it change by
bigger fractions over time, but
everything is a remix, and oh, one of
the things I've said is the best thing
that never happened to me was one video
like blowing up, going super viral. If
you like look at the
the graph of my channel over time, it's
just like a
flat slowly growing line.
>> Yeah.
>> That's the 3% change. That's it right
there. We try to do some stuff that's
like harder to steal, also. Like if
there's going to be a thousand reviews
of the same phone, but one of them has a
sick robot shot in the first 10 seconds
of it,
kind of lends a little bit of
credibility maybe to that video.
So yeah, we do lots of stuff that can be
copied, which is why we also do some
stuff sometimes that is really hard to
copy on purpose.
>> Hey, can I ask how much did that robot
arm cost?
>> That robot arm cost $250,000.
Wow.
>> And and to get like these fluid shots
where you punch in punch that you
program it.
>> sick. Yeah, you've seen the Glambot at
at the big award shows or whatever. It's
essentially that. It's a big
manufacturing robot arm made by Kuka. It
puts doors on cars in factories. But
ours has a camera on the end of it and
it's got an Xbox controller that
controls the whole thing and some
software on a Mac where we get to you
know, keyframe up exactly what we want
to do. So instead of the Glambot or
putting the windshield into a Tesla,
it's move this camera here and adjust
the fizz, the focus iris zoom to hit
this point and then do this and then do
this and then that's it's a lot of fun.
>> Yeah. And and what about like how you
come up with new formats cuz I I I
thought it's fascinating when you did
the smartphone awards which you've been
doing for a while now. A lot of folks
have done something similar even the
thumbnail. It's just interesting to see
that adapted in in different ways.
>> The smartphone awards initially, I mean
I this the bread and butter of the
gadget review space is smartphones.
They're coming out all the time. There's
tons of them I review a bunch of them
all the time. So I don't remember the
first year. It might have been 2013 or
something
where I just decided let's do a wrap-up
this year of all the best ones that came
out and maybe some categories.
And then the next year I actually I'd
started that with like a bunch of phones
on the desk in front of me. So the next
year I had more phones on the desk in
front of me and I made it a little more
formal and once you do it twice,
now it's a series. So you got to keep
going. So now we did another one every
single year and eventually it became the
awards. So yes, other people have done
smartphone wrap-ups at the end of their
year. Makes a lot of sense. Some people
take varying amounts of inspiration from
my smartphone Awards, which is totally
flattering.
Um but yeah, that that's a tried and
true format for sure.
>> Do you look at outliers? Like I I talk a
lot to Jimmy or we did an interview with
Nick DiGiovanni and other folks across
like YouTube. They look at what's been
performing well and then they adapt that
or put their spin on it. Do you look at
like what has been performing on other
channels as you try to adapt and put
your own spin on it?
>> A little bit. It's usually pretty
intuitive though. And maybe it's cuz I'm
terminally online, but like I know what
people are talking a lot about. That
stuff will perform better.
Uh and I know what I care about because
it's really exciting interesting
announce- announcement, that stuff will
perform well. And then there's the stuff
that uh I know is not going to be an
outlier or super high performer, but
that maybe I'm just interested in making
anyway.
Um
and sometimes I'll notice stuff that
surprises me occasionally on other
channels, but usually it's not too
surprising. Just cuz the tech world is
like there are big market things and
small market things.
>> Yeah. I like to think about it as a
spectrum of like uh copy and paste,
which is like ripping something off and
and taking it versus like copy with
taste, which is like ad- adapting it and
blending. I'm wondering like how you
think about that spectrum, if at all
subconsciously.
>> I I do like to give credit where it's
due. I think that's the main theme. Uh a
video that comes to mind just as we talk
about this is I just made a video about
the arc of OnePlus as a company. They
started off as an enthusiast brand and
they did this whole arc all the way to
like generic smartphone.
And I reference uh like eight-year-old
video from a tech YouTuber I've watched
for forever and
make sure to like link to his video and
explain it, but like a lot of the points
are going to be the same.
So, it's not necessarily copy and paste
or copy with taste, but it's like I'm
just letting you know that this is where
a lot of the points are coming from and
also here's the new context for it as we
talk about this OnePlus company. So,
I think giving credit where due is
important, um,
but there's so many
this is always the question is like how
much inspiration can you really give
credit for? You've watched thousands of
videos in the past.
That's always just a judgment call. Like
do I give credit to this one thing that
reminded me to say this other thing? I
don't know. But that was a pretty clear
example for me of like, yeah, give
credit for that.
>> Yeah. Uh, when you see people like kind
of take your work like exactly does like
it it honestly like does that ever piss
you off and be like, "Oh, we originated
that. They took it and like it just like
you put in all the hard work to kind of
think about the details of it." Does
that ever get under your skin?
>> I don't think I've seen it done like
flat out like copy and paste. I've seen
copy with taste plenty of times. I've
seen also like
homage
type of shout-outs, which I think are
great. They're super fun. Like in the
AutoFocus channel, I like come out of
the bushes to start the video. I've seen
another car review come out of the
bushes and I'm like, "That's not
copying. That's like a shout-out kind
of." So, I'm cool with that.
>> Yeah, even if they don't mention you.
>> Even if they don't mention it, the
viewers it's like an if you know, you
know thing. Like I they I'll leave a
comment. Like I, you know, I see it. Uh,
I don't think I've seen anyone like
straight rip something, which is nice.
>> Yeah.
>> It's a it's a big remix culture
>> in terms of things building on each
other in real time. And I'm wondering
Marques, like if you could talk about
like the different seasons of being a
YouTuber and and how there's a
preseason, there's there's playoffs and
and I think a lot of that is because
you're a tech YouTuber who works towards
September and October where most tech
companies launch their products and you
review them. I'm just wondering how do
non-tech YouTubers also think about
that?
>> It's a really good question. I think
this all comes from the topic of
burnout.
>> Mhm.
>> If you ask a YouTuber to describe
burnout, it's like running on a
treadmill for forever and the speed is
just too high. You can't stay on the
treadmill anymore.
And
ever I think everyone knows like what
that feels like. That's like
overwhelming. That's like it's another
video, another video, another thing and
you're you've turned up the temperature
too high and you can't keep this rate
going and you just want to step away.
That's burnout.
One way of preventing burnout that's
kind of built into tech is it has a
really busy season in
Tech-tember, Tech-tober.
And then it has a kind of a lull
naturally in like January, February,
March usually.
And that's just cuz like you know,
companies are getting their stuff on the
shelves for the holiday season, but
that's like when there's tons
constantly. Like the the rate of
production is super high.
But what I found is that actually kind
of it's it has a lot of parallels to
being an athlete where there's like a
a regular season and then you're like
ramping up into like the most important
execution time of the year which is
postseason. You've had all of your you
know, processes that you've been
fine-tuning and all of your experiments
you've been running.
The regular season games matter, but not
as much as the postseason where you're
going to absolutely be battle tested and
do your absolute best work for 2 months
straight.
And then you obviously can't keep that
rate going forever. So then it ends.
And then there's like the
the sort of off-season.
Where okay, you kind of sit back a
little bit, take stock of where you're
at, how that went, what you'd maybe like
to change going forward. And then you
can start building strategically towards
that new thing. I see so many parallels
of like, okay, I know next season I got
beat a lot in the air because I wasn't
strong off my left foot. Okay, I'm going
to do a lot of exercise to build
strength and build the foundation where
I can be springing off my left foot so
that I win more of those battles in the
air. I'm making frisbee references for
some reason, but
>> Or like like I've been really bad at
thumbnails. I'm thinking about them last
minute during my preseason or like my
regular season. I should be better about
my thumbnails and packaging.
>> be working on integrating a person or a
process to be more focused on
thumbnails, exactly.
And so now you've got this shape here,
where it's like you we have this really
really high output a certain time of
year.
And it's not like we have a zero output
or a low output, but it is much more
relaxed as we sort of re-evaluate and we
are thankfully in a position as a
channel where we've got a lot of people
watching every video. There's a sort of
a floor for views per month or whatever,
so
it's not like the super high pressure of
like
treadmill is always high.
So, the systems, the the off-season
on-season thing, I think helps a lot for
burnout. You certainly talk about other
channels, I have no idea how to manage
that if you're not a product you have
>> Yeah, well like what are what are like
playoffs for other channels?
>> It's a really good question. I mean, I
feel like I was just talking about this
on the podcast, this is like the Super
Bowl for weather channels. I don't know
if you watch like meteorology YouTube,
but there's
>> [laughter]
>> these huge winter storms and like they
are killing it right now. They're making
two, three videos a day, live streaming,
keeping the people updated on the next
models and how the storms are tracking
across the country. It's really
interesting to watch.
I kind of feel like they also have an
off-season probably when the weather's
less exciting here.
>> Yeah, interesting.
Or I guess the default for a lot of
channels is November, December when CPMs
go up.
>> That's a good yeah, exactly.
>> Yeah, and and you can make more money
off of the same uploads.
>> It's probably true about almost every
channel.
>> Yeah, but I think it's a good takeaway.
Like find your playoffs if they exist in
your industry.
Um or like an idea I had I've just
become obsessed with this idea of behind
the scenes and documentaries.
I want to like I want to do something in
October called Doc-tober.
>> Okay.
>> I'm putting it out I I don't know if
we're going to do it, we'll see. One one
day.
But like where every week we put out a
different documentary about a different
creator.
>> Mhm.
>> And just create a playoff for our team
to work towards, where we'll do behind
the scenes, studio tours, breakdowns of
different creators, fine-tune. And it's
like, all right, October comes along,
let's crush it.
>> I I do think there's something magical
about having a a little
brief part of the year where you are
outputting a ridiculous like an
impossible amount.
And it could be like the what you're
talking about with the the documentary
of like how is he every single week like
coming out with a new thing? These must
have taken weeks to make.
That spectacle and that energy is like
really fun to like work towards and have
that that shining like Super Bowl moment
for your channel and to just see what
you're capable of.
>> I think that's fun.
So yeah, that's kind of how the tech
season is. It's like September.
Let's see what I still got. Let's see
what I'm made of. Like let's do this.
>> Yeah. Um do you feel like you're an
athlete who does YouTube on the side or
a YouTuber who's an athlete on the side?
Cuz bro, you won a gold medal. And then
you like you're you're traveling to
China, you're competing internationally.
It's unbelievable. And then you come
here and you have this world-class
channel over 20 million subscribers.
Like but I don't know which version of
you is like the the primary
>> Yeah, it's it's
yeah, it is
here's what I'll say. It's not like a
50/50 split. It is a switch that flips
back and forth.
Um I do think a lot of the mentality for
each one bleeds a lot into the other
though. There's a lot of team building
and chemistry and the playoffs that we
talked about and stuff from athleticism
that works in this environment. Um
there's also a lot of creativity and
problem solving that works on the field.
So,
I guess that's nice that I happen to be
able to use a lot of my skills for each
of those things.
>> Give me an example. Like like what are
you applying from frisbee? Cuz I I for
the life of me can't understand the
parallels other than team building,
we're in a huddle, rah rah. Like I I can
understand that but like give me
something tactical. Like what what what
what have you applied like from frisbee
to this?
>> Okay, so there's one part which is team
building.
Like every team has a captain and some
form of leadership and a coach and some
sometimes there's three captains.
There's a strategy captain, there's a
vibes captain. Well, and there will be a
vibes captain?
>> not not actual, but [laughter] like
I can imagine a patch on his
>> Yeah, the vibes guy. No, there's there
will be like three or four captains and
they'll they'll all sort of split the
workload of leadership at a player level
into different things. And so you have
the person who's focused on like the
defensive strategy and that's the
captain that you look to for that. And
you have the person that's focused on
the offensive strategy to not get beat
by the other team's defense and the
offense listens to that person. And then
you have the logistics captain who's
like working to make sure those people
don't have to think about the hotels and
the car setups and all the other things.
And what tournaments do we play and how
do we have the highest ranking by the
end of the year and all this other
stuff.
And I think
there's some level of that also applies
here. Like there's
you know, people who are essentially
making choices about how we compete as a
team to be as effective as possible, to
be
as high output as possible in the
competitive time of year.
Um
>> You mean there's different captains
within the MKH team? You're saying
>> Totally. Yeah.
>> Like is that a formal assigned role?
>> Not really, but I feel like there's
there's channel producers that are kind
of like spinning together all of the
pieces to put together, you know, the
things that work with the channel
strategy.
Um
And then there's I guess the other way
around is like
there are levels of problem solving. I
think I did like a mic'd up episode of a
like a show at Nationals last year for
frisbee
where we're calling a play on the line
and it's like, all right, we're going to
run this play, we're going to set up in
a horizontal stack. You're going to
start over on the top left. The first
two cuts will come from the front,
they'll go across and then Marquez,
you're just problem solving.
So you're going to read what the defense
is doing to those first two cuts and who
they leave open and then make the first
and or second cut depending on who's
open top or bottom to to get open and
make sure the the handler doesn't get
stalled out.
>> You're reacting.
>> Re- reading and reacting, yeah. Problem
solving.
So yeah, it kind of it's on both sides
of the ball. I feel like you can kind of
take
uh little pieces of of playing sports
and apply them to
running a YouTube channel.
>> Do you ever think about how much more
successful you could be at YouTube if
you weren't
doing frisbee?
>> I don't think it would be very
different. I actually think
>> Really?
>> Well, it would be a little It's not
zero.
>> Yeah.
>> It's not zero.
>> There's definitely some time that I lose
to each of these things that I would I
would be a better YouTuber if I wasn't
also traveling and playing sports. I
would be a better, more complete athlete
if I wasn't in a studio.
Um but thankfully
most of the work tech stuff is like
during the day, during weekdays.
And most of the sports stuff is nights
and weekends. So it actually doesn't
overlap that much, thankfully.
>> But you don't work weekends as a
YouTuber.
>> Not as much as I do in like sports. I
used to. I used to as a college student
do 7 days a week of both, basically.
We'd have practice every day, every
other day. We have tournaments every
weekend. Um but there is no way for me
to work uh
on videos when I'm at a tournament. It's
just impossible. So I've had to just
sort of accept that flip switch.
>> How does your team keep running? Like
what are you doing like when you're in
China? Like like you know, spotty
internet, like you're not here, you got
to be on camera. Like what like cuz I I
I find like you're doing this thing
where I'm like, "Oh my god,
he's not only like taking time off, he's
putting himself into a totally different
craft. Um meanwhile, a lot of YouTubers
can't even take a day off.
Um like how how how how how how are you
doing that? And and what what what what
what what what what what what what what
>> bit. A little bit, yeah. I've had a
couple international tournaments that I
know about on the calendar long enough
ahead of time that I can cram. And tech
isn't necessarily always conducive to
this, but I can cram some more
evergreenish types of videos that can
come out while I'm away. So it doesn't
feel like as big of a gap. I've also
accepted more as a YouTuber in the last
couple years that you can take a week
off and survive.
So I do that sometimes.
>> Do you have you ever had a moment where
you're playing frisbee or you're
overseas, you're competing and some big
news breaks about a tech company like oh
>> It's been close. It's been close.
Um on more than one occasion I have
flown back into the United States from
an international tournament directly
into a tech event or some tech video. In
fact, the last two
uh we won a gold medal with the World
Ultimate Championships in Australia last
year
and that's a very different time zone.
And I flew directly to San Francisco
where my team met me with my gear and
landed and that morning
was the iPhone unveiling.
And so that was a long day. That was
like a 40-hour day.
And the other was I was just in China
like you pointed out um
this past year and
the Pixel 10 uh
hands-on and embargoes were all not
embargoes, the hands-on were all
scheduled for the week I was away.
And it was crazy but I emailed them and
I was like, "All right, this is going to
sound crazy but hear me out. I'm away in
China for that week.
What if
when I get back
I I like sneak over to your office and
like quickly hang out and like get the
footage and check out the devices
because the next day is the embargo?"
And they facilitated. They actually came
here with the unreleased Pixel phones
and set up a little demo for me to have
the same experience everyone else had
while I was in China.
And I So yeah, I landed. I think I got
to Newark Airport at like 4:45 in the
morning, came over here
uh every the Google people got here, I
shot the video and I made it in a day.
So it was like as soon as I landed I was
right back to work.
>> I'm thinking about all the like newer
creators who watch our show and are
listening to it. Do you feel like that
is something like a level you've gotten
to because of how big you are now?
>> Yes.
>> Versus like would young Marques have
made that trade-off versus being like
I'm trying to be a tech YouTuber. I need
to be at that iPhone or Pixel unveiling.
Like
Frisbee's going to have to wait. This
personal thing's going to have to wait.
That like would you have made that
trade-off like honestly like if you were
younger?
>> It's a good question. When I was younger
I had school every day and I couldn't
wait to make that trade-off. I was like
as soon as I'm done with school man
there's going to be so many more hours
in the day to do all this stuff.
Um I'd be in the back of calc watching
the Apple event. Like I'm just going to
miss whatever's happening today in class
cuz I have to be like paying attention
and plugged into this event.
Sorry professor if you're watching this
like that was me in the back of the
class but like now uh I haven't
necessarily had to make a direct
trade-off of like something is happening
that I'm going to miss for Frisbee.
That's it's going to happen eventually.
Um I will probably God it's impossible
to decide. It's very much like in the
moment like which thing is more
important. It's really hard to pick.
>> You're you from what everything I tell
you you're very good at just like
being clear about what you want and
saying no.
>> Yeah.
>> Um are there big opportunities that like
you've said no to recently that maybe
you would have said yes to before and
I'm just wondering how you navigate that
cuz I think a lot of creators have this
scarcity mindset so like they got to say
yes to everything. They don't know when
this wave or whatever they're in is
going to evaporate.
>> Totally.
>> Um I'm just wondering how you navigate
that cuz it seems like you had this
clarity from very young age.
>> I guess there's you just have to find
like a sort of a north star of like what
your goal is with what you're doing. A
lot of people are just like let's just
make this thing as big as possible and
get as many views as possible or
monetize as hard as possible or
whatever.
Um
a lot of opportunities came that were
clearly not going to help with any of
those goals
but that would be fun.
And like what?
Like the N A the NFL just invited me to
do the
flag football Super Bowl game or
whatever it was.
>> a creator versus creator thing.
>> it would have been fun.
>> Yeah, yeah.
>> But um I don't know. I'm I'd rather be
here. Like making videos and see like
there's stuff like that. There's stuff I
do say yes to of course now that's
really fun. But yeah, it's just about
like finding what you're actually here
to do, what you're trying to do with
your channel. And if you can say yes to
things that don't take away from that,
that's great. Um
but yeah, you got to find that thing.
>> Have you said no to streaming platforms?
That seems to be a moment that we're in
right now. You know, Jimmy has Beast
Games on Prime. Mark Rober uh he came on
our show talked about how he has a
Netflix show, all the things he's doing
for that.
Um you know, Dhar Mann like like all all
all these creators are are having a
moment and and you know, streamers are
trying to pick up more YouTubers. Like
have you been approached?
>> I have not been, but don't bother. I
wouldn't I'm not interested. I I
I kind of maybe have this
also maybe naive view of uh the creator
landscape, which is that they're all
they're they need you. Like they need
the eyeballs and the only way to reach
these people who are just watching
YouTube is to be on YouTube.
Uh they're trying to bring the YouTuber
to their platform to hopefully take some
of the eyeballs with them, but we're
having a really good time here making
videos that we we really like and going
to make a show on Netflix would not
accomplish anything like that we can't
do here.
Um for some of those people, of course
they have goals of like to
and you know, boost your profile online
and to to leverage your way into other
opportunities and that's why they do
those things and that's great.
Uh I'm just that's not one of the things
I'm doing.
>> Isn't there another level though,
Marques? Like I mean, you know,
if Jimmy's reaching a ton of people as
Mr. Beast channel then Beast Games, you
know, give gives
a crazy budget he's able to do even
bigger spectacles. Mark talked about the
same thing and he's like, but there's a
different demographic he could reach
like are there more people that could be
hearing about like your content or
seeing a different side of you that
you're not already making on YouTube?
>> Yeah, probably.
Um but is if I don't know if my goal is
to like reach as many people as possible
and like
if I can reach the 50 to 70 demo I don't
know I have that's not really something
I'm thinking a lot about. Of course I'm
trying to optimize for the people who
actually do want to pay attention to
tech. And to be honest, these days most
stories are tech stories. Like
everything is tech in some way. So it's
valuable to be on a lot of those
surfaces and to weigh in and to be the
one that they trust and remember the
face of.
So I yeah, it would probably make sense
if I went and did a bunch of things that
boosted my profile and made me more
visible to regular people or something.
Um
but yeah, I've just I I'm too busy
working on the next video. So I'm not
really doing as much of that stuff and I
think that's okay for now.
>> Yeah, well, that that takes a lot of
clarity.
Just to talk a bit more about like
thoughts on AI. You retweeted the AI
Will Smith spaghetti test.
>> [laughter]
>> The definitive test.
What what your take about where AI is
going and and how it'll impact like
creators. Like we've already talked a
bit about like how, you know, you're
trying to do show stuff that's not AI,
but where do you think we'll be like in
6 months in in a year? How are you using
AI? Like I I I I feel like you're
cutting edge in so many ways to hear
your take on it would be interesting.
>> So one, I think clearly the AI generated
imagery is going to be higher and higher
in quality until it approaches
human-made content. That's a kind of a
default. I don't know how long it's
going to take, but that's just we just
assume that that's what is happening.
Uh my other assumption that I just kind
of hold that I don't have much
reason to hold, but I hold anyway,
is that I think people will still want
to watch human-made craft and activity
and performance. And we're still going
to watch humans play chess against each
other instead of AIs play chess against
each other. We're still going to watch
movies made by people that tell their
life story rather than AI
coming up with a story. Even if it's
graphically as high fidelity as what
we'd make as a human, I still believe
that people want to watch human stuff.
And then
yeah, I I just feel like there's there's
endless opportunity. I use AI as
brainstorming tools mainly. Like I I
talk to the chatbots about like at this
point they know they seem to know that
I'm MKBHD and they're like, "Here's some
video ideas for your channel." And I'm
like, "This is super helpful."
Um
So yeah, that's that's mainly where I
use AI tools and then from there we kind
of take it to the, you know, the
creative team and we make what we want
to make, but
yeah.
>> Where do you think that YouTube is going
like the in terms of like the future of
the platform? Like last time we chatted
you said like you'd like to see them
bring back the dislike button. Um
since then we've seen YouTube launch
collabs,
uh the AI summary tool, AB title
testing,
um dynamic ad insertions,
um
Ask Studio,
a lot of like new AI creation tools.
Like is there anything you would like to
see YouTube do?
Or things that you'd like to make them
bring back. Like put on your CEO hat.
Like you're Neal Mohan for a day. What
what are you doing?
>> Well, the the dislike button's still
gone, so I'm still going to I'm going to
flag that one again since I'm the CEO
for the day.
Um
No, I think they've done a lot of stuff.
I mean, I was waiting for title and
thumbnail AB testing as pairs.
They did that. That's huge.
You test that? You try that?
>> Oh, yeah, yeah, yeah, it's
>> Of course, yeah. It's super interesting.
you
>> a process for that? Like I I find that
um I try to have one thumbnail with
three titles.
And then as soon as I see which title
works then I keep that and then I try
three different thumbnails to that one
title cuz you're changing multiple
variables and you're not really going to
know what's working.
>> That's totally valid. I'm a little more
pairing them together. Usually we pair a
title and a thumbnail.
Um
I also feel like I started just sort of
doing a bunch of testing at the
beginning just cuz we had the feature
and then I learned that most of the tiny
things that we'd AB test didn't make
more than a fraction of a percent
difference.
So then now we really only AB test
really very different titles and
thumbnails.
>> Right off the bat.
>> Yeah, like we would have like a
an iPhone review or something where it's
like, "Hmm, should I use the orange
iPhone or the blue iPhone?" So we'd do a
version of it's like no one is clicking
because of the color of it. They're
clicking for the title and the sentiment
and all the rest of the things happening
in that packaging.
So yeah, we'd stop testing like the tiny
tests and and more tests like
should we test me taking a picture with
it or me using it from the front of the
phone like front versus back of the
phone. Sometimes the back of the phone
is a little more visually identifiable
and iconic.
>> Yeah.
>> Stuff like that.
>> Yeah. Or I've seen yeah a lot of
creators do macro changes like like you
mentioned and then go micro. Like I
think Ryan Trahan had a hotel video
where he had a bunch of different like
compositions.
>> Yeah.
>> once there was a winner I was looking at
this on ViewStats like the next one he
changes the copy in the tweet that was
on there. Or I saw Jimmy does it with
like the protect the yacht video. It's
like multiple different compositions and
just totally different vantage points of
the visual.
>> Yeah.
>> And then he'll change out his shirt
color or like something on the boat.
>> I he was talking about like open mouth
versus closed mouth. Like I do think
that could make a couple percent
difference but I I I do wonder about
those other things. Maybe at Jimmy's
scale or Ryan's scale like
1% difference is 10,000 more views so
it's worth it but I
yeah, I I just feel like I don't like
when I'm watching videos and the titles
change and the thumbnails change and I
just realized I've been watching a video
I've already seen cuz it was a different
title and thumbnail. I'd rather nail it
as early as I can and not keep changing
it. That's just me.
Um
But yeah, I do see I'll see I'll see a
lot of experimentation with that.
>> Yeah. Marques another one of the most
refreshing videos I think I watched last
year was the one about your mistakes.
>> Mhm.
>> What what why did you
decide to make that video?
>> Because saying it out loud was way
better than
just
taking all that data for myself and then
just sitting on it.
Um
So the video for those who haven't seen
it was just going through the entire
calendar year of videos, every single
mistake that I made, what we did about
it, how it happened, and then ideally
how to minimize that happening in the
future.
It's not a sexy video to do or a very
popular thing to do, but it does help
for those who are like in the thick of
it watching every video to appreciate
like what goes into these videos and the
level of like detail that the
nitty-gritty that we can get into with
these videos and
yeah, a lot of the mistakes were like
yeah, I said I said I I wrote six iPhone
16 Air instead of iPhone Air. That's my
bad. Like I I had a couple weird like
errors like that, but there were some
interesting ones that we learned from.
Um so yeah, that's just sort of a peek
behind the curtain transparency type of
video that I think hopefully people
appreciated.
>> Yeah. Are there any other big mistakes
that you recall like when you're putting
that together that video or as you put
that out like other things that seem to
resonate with folks? Like again, most
people won't talk about that.
>> I don't think so. I mean, it was I'd
gotten the idea from and I shouted him
out from the Tom Scott video where he
had I think it was 10 years of videos
and the mistakes that he made.
But yeah, I think actually I've seen in
comments of people being like, "Oh, you
know, sometimes these videos are sloppy.
Sometimes there's there's missing
information. Marques gets stuff wrong
all the time."
So here's an actual collection of
everything I've gotten wrong. And you
can be the judge for yourself if that's
too much or not, but at least now you
have the facts.
>> Yeah. I want to play this
last clip from Casey from that same
interview because he just went on about
you.
>> [laughter]
>> Okay.
>> I want to get your reaction to this.
>> All right.
>> We will always want to to know about the
latest technology. There will always be
new technology. And we need a voice we
can trust. And I think 30 years from now
that that voice will be Marques
Brownlee.
And that's why I think like if you're
only judging him on what he's done
today, he's still the greatest YouTuber
that's ever existed. But I think 20
years from now there will be no question
in in what he has done for the world of
YouTube.
>> Wow. [snorts]
>> Can you even think 30 years ahead? Like
do you do you want to be a YouTuber 30
years from now? Are you thinking about
like, you know, there's been a wave of
retirements. You've been on the platform
for a while like
>> Yeah.
Well, okay. So, I'm 30 I'm 32. So, 60
62.
>> Wow.
>> I'll probably be
Look, I I've always said like
one, I'm not about to predict the
future, but two, I love making videos
and I'll make videos as long as I love
making videos. If today you like handed
me a check for what did KB Lame just
have like a $900 million or whatever? If
you handed me that, what would I do?
I'd probably just keep making videos.
I just enjoy making videos. So, if
that's still true when I'm 62,
then that's where I'll be.
But yeah, I will definitely have retired
from Prisby then Prisby by then.
Um so, I will probably have switched to
golf or something less taxing on my
knees.
But I'll probably keep making videos.
>> Can I can I ask a more personal
question, Marques?
>> Yeah.
>> Um do you think about like having a
family and balancing the YouTube channel
with that? Cuz I've it's been
like one of the most rewarding things to
have a daughter, but one of the hardest
things to balance it with being a
YouTuber versus like the other jobs I've
had. I'm I'm wondering like are are are
you Can I ask if you're in a
relationship right now? Is it hard to
balance that and and YouTube and and
think about maybe a family? I I don't I
just maybe this is too personal, but you
seem to balance this so well. I'm just
wondering how do you think about
>> Yeah.
I do think the
the like work-life balance thing has
been a learned skill.
I remember back in college
like my dorm room, it's like roll out of
bed, the desk is right there. Like you
go from home to work and you're just in
it. And the second you feel like you're
done, you can just step back and you're
in bed.
And so it's really easy to spend way too
much time on work.
And then there was this moment in like
where I was looking to finally graduate
from the dorm to get a house.
And part of my process was I should have
a big basement or something in this
house so I can have a studio.
And I got really far in the process with
one of these and then it fell through.
And that was actually a little blessing
in disguise cuz then we found this
space.
And this is a a building we share with a
bunch of other tenants, but it is a a
separate work space. So then I had a
house and I had a commute to go to work,
spend all the time here in the thick of
it, and then leave work behind.
And that was a really important
different path to take for me cuz I
could still be like in the, you know,
roll out of bed, I'm at work.
Um so that was really big. Now there's
the separation.
Then the second half of that really is
like I would go home and keep working,
but I think now with the team and with
all of our plans and with the sort of
flow of the year, there are many times
during the year where I feel like there
is a really healthy balance, if you want
to call it that,
of work and life.
So I feel good about that. I think the
team has enabled that for me and I think
that's what's made it possible to think
ahead about a family and like the types
of things that take a lot of time like
having kids as you know.
Um but yeah, I'm glad I I I found that
that path was or the the other one
falling through and then taking this
path was a nice blessing in disguise to
actually uh make that discovery.
>> So, having that physical separation.
>> Yes.
Yeah.
>> Yeah, that's a big one. Yeah, cuz I find
a a lot of people would talk the talk
but you really walk the walk having been
here uh for a bit just seeing the fact
that your team is eating lunch together,
the fact that in this year in the life
documentary multiple times people said
there's no expectation to work after
5:00 p.m.
Um and there's no mamba mentality. Like
uh which which was kind of interesting
cuz I was like
>> Maybe a little in September, October.
>> Yeah, but then yeah, you can but then it
dial dials up. Yeah, I think and then
having that expectation when it does and
the way you've set up this business,
man, it's just
I I I I think it's a just something that
uh I I really um look up to and I think
about like how we're building our
business and trying to emulate that um
cuz it's it's refreshing, it's rare and
it's just a beautiful thing to see what
you've done.
>> Yeah.
>> With not only your content but with your
team.
>> That's that's the goal of the of pulling
back the curtain a little bit. Hopefully
more people are able to build stuff like
what we're making here.
>> Yeah.
>> Cool. Well, thank you, Marques. It's
been a pleasure, bud. Thanks for having
me.
>> This is fun.
>> Yeah.
If you haven't already, make sure you
subscribe cuz we have another video
coming out with Marques where he does a
full breakdown of one of his best videos
ever, how he made it, how he edited, all
the behind-the-scenes stuff I've never
heard him talk about before. And if you
haven't, go to ythackpack.com
and you will get our free YouTube growth
hack pack which just has our best tools,
[music] tips, and templates on how to
grow on YouTube today and we update it
constantly after we do more and more
interviews [music] with top creators.
It's all for free. So, get it here at
ythackpack.com or go to this QR code.